The Galvanick Lucipher is of antique design.  Ghnxh, who is about a hundred years old,
can only smile in condescension at Waterhouse's U.S. Navy flashlight.  In the *sotto voce*
tones one might use to correct an enormous social gaffe, he explains that the galvanick
lucipher is of such a superior design as to make any further reference to the Navy model
a grating embarrassment for everyone concerned.  He leads Waterhouse back to a special
room behind the room behind the room behind the room behind the pantry, a room that
exists solely for the maintenance of the galvanick lucipher and hte storage of its parts
and supplies.  The heart of the device is a hand-blown spherical glass jar comparable in
volume to a gallon jug.  Ghnxh, who suffers from a pretty advanced case of either hypothermia
or Parkinson's, maneuvers a glass funnel into the neck of the jar.  Then he wrestles a 
glass carboyfrom a shelf.  The carboy, labeled AQUA REGIA, is filled with a fulminant orange
liquid.  He removes its glass stopper, hugs it, and heaves it over so that the orange fluid
begins to glug out into the funnel and thence into the jar.  Where it splashes out onto
the tabletop, something very much like smoke curls up as it eats holes just like the
thousands of other holes already there.  The fumes get into Waterhouse's lungs; they are
astoundingly corrosive.  He staggers out of the room for a while.

When he ventures back, he finds Ghnxh whittling an electrode from an ingot of pure carbon.
The jar of aqua regia has been capped off now, and a variety of anodes, cathodes, and
other working substances are suspened in it, held in place by clamps of hammered gold.
Thick wires, in insulating sheathes of hand-knit asbestos, twist out of the jar and into
the business end of the galvanick lucipher: a copper salad bowl whose mouth is closed
off by a Fresnel lens like the ones on a lighthouse.  When Ghnxh gets his carbon whittled
to just the right size and shape, he fits it into a little hatch in the side of this
bowl, and casually throws a Frankensteinian blade switch.  A spark pops across the 
contacts like a firecracker.

For a moment, Waterhouse thinks that one wall of the building has collapsed, exposing them
to the direct light of the sun.  But Ghnxh has simply turned on the galvanick lucipher,
which soon becomes about ten times brighter, as Ghnxh adjusts a bronze thumbscrew.
Crushed with shame, Waterhouse puts his Navy flashlight back into its prissy little belt
holster and precedes Ghnxh out of the room, the galvanick lucifer casting palpable warmth
on the back of his neck.  "We've got about two hours before she goes dead on us,"
Ghnxh says significantly.


